NTLM_AUTH(1)                                                      NTLM_AUTH(1)



NAME
       ntlm_auth - tool to allow external access to Winbind's NTLM authentica-
       tion function

SYNOPSIS
       ntlm_auth [-d debuglevel] [-l logdir] [-s <smb config file>]

DESCRIPTION
       This tool is part of the samba(7) suite.

       ntlm_auth is a helper utility  that  authenticates  users  using  NT/LM
       authentication. It returns 0 if the users is authenticated successfully
       and 1 if access was denied. ntlm_auth uses winbind to access  the  user
       and  authentication data for a domain. This utility is only indended to
       be used by other programs (currently Squid and mod_ntlm_winbind)

OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS
       The winbindd(8) daemon must be operational for many of  these  commands
       to function.

       Some  of  these  commands  also  require  access  to the directory win-
       bindd_privileged in $LOCKDIR. This should be  done  either  by  running
       this  command  as root or providing group access to the winbindd_privi-
       leged directory. For security reasons, this  directory  should  not  be
       world-accessable.

OPTIONS
       --helper-protocol=PROTO
          Operate as a stdio-based helper. Valid helper protocols are:


             squid-2.4-basic
                Server-side  helper for use with Squid 2.4's basic (plaintext)
                authentication.

             squid-2.5-basic
                Server-side helper for use with Squid 2.5's basic  (plaintext)
                authentication.

             squid-2.5-ntlmssp
                Server-side  helper for use with Squid 2.5's NTLMSSP authenti-
                cation.

                Requires access to the directory winbindd_privileged in $LOCK-
                DIR.  The protocol used is described here: http://devel.squid-
                cache.org/ntlm/squid_helper_protocol.html. This  protocol  has
                been  extended  to  allow  the  NTLMSSP Negotiate packet to be
                included as an argument to the YR command. (Thus avoiding loss
                of information in the protocol exchange).

             ntlmssp-client-1
                Client-side  helper  for  use  with arbitary external programs
                that may wish to use Samba's NTLMSSP authentication  knowlege.

                This  helper  is a client, and as such may be run by any user.
                The protocol used is effectivly the reverse  of  the  previous
                protocol.  A  YR  command  (without  any arguments) starts the
                authentication exchange.

             gss-spnego
                Server-side helper that implements  GSS-SPNEGO.  This  uses  a
                protocol that is almost the same as squid-2.5-ntlmssp, but has
                some subtle differences  that  are  undocumented  outside  the
                source at this stage.

                Requires access to the directory winbindd_privileged in $LOCK-
                DIR.

             gss-spnego-client
                Client-side helper that implements GSS-SPNEGO. This also  uses
                a  protocol  similar  to  the  above helpers, but is currently
                undocumented.

             ntlm-server-1
                Server-side helper protocol, intended  for  use  by  a  RADIUS
                server  or the 'winbind' plugin for pppd, for the provision of
                MSCHAP and MSCHAPv2 authentication.

                This protocol consists of lines in for form: Parameter:  value
                and  Paramter::  Base64-encode value. The presence of a single
                period indicates that one side has finished supplying data  to
                the  other. (Which in turn could cause the helper to authenti-
                cate the user).

                Curently implemented parameters from the external  program  to
                the helper are:


                   Username
                      The username, expected to be in Samba's unix charset.

                      Example 1. Username: bob

                      Example 2. Username:: Ym9i

                   Username
                      The  user's  domain,  expected  to  be  in  Samba's unix
                      charset.

                      Example 3. Domain: WORKGROUP

                      Example 4. Domain:: V09SS0dST1VQ

                   Full-Username
                      The fully qualified username, expected to be in Samba's

                      and qualified with the winbind separator.

                      Example 5. Full-Username: WORKGROUPb

                      Example 6. Full-Username:: V09SS0dST1VQYm9i

                   LANMAN-Challenge
                      The 8 byte LANMAN Challenge value, generated randomly by
                      the  server, or (in cases such as MSCHAPv2) generated in
                      some way by both the server and the client.

                      Example 7. LANMAN-Challege: 0102030405060708

                   LANMAN-Response
                      The 24 byte LANMAN Response value, calculated  from  the
                      user's password and the supplied LANMAN Challenge. Typi-
                      cally, this is provided over the  network  by  a  client
                      wishing to authenticate.

                      Example 8. LANMAN-Response:
                      0102030405060708090A0B0C0D0E0F101112131415161718

                   NT-Response
                      The >= 24 byte NT Response calculated  from  the  user's
                      password  and  the supplied LANMAN Challenge. Typically,
                      this is provided over the network by a client wishing to
                      authenticate.

                      Example 9. NT-Response:
                      0102030405060708090A0B0C0D0E0F101112131415161718

                   Password
                      The user's password. This would be provided by a network
                      client,  if  the helper is being used in a legacy situa-
                      tion that exposes plaintext passwords in this way.

                      Example 10. Password: samba2

                      Example 11. Password:: c2FtYmEy

                   Request-User-Session-Key
                      Apon sucessful authenticaiton, return the  user  session
                      key associated with the login.

                      Example 12. Request-User-Session-Key: Yes

                   Request-LanMan-Session-Key
                      Apon sucessful authenticaiton, return the LANMAN session
                      key associated with the login.

                      Example 13. Request-LanMan-Session-Key: Yes

                   Warning
                   Implementors   should   take   care   to   base64    encode
                             any  data  (such as usernames/passwords) that may
                   contain malicous user data, such  as            a  newline.
                   They  may  also  need  to decode strings from           the
                   helper, which likewise may have been base64 encoded.

       --username=USERNAME
          Specify username of user to authenticate

       --domain=DOMAIN
          Specify domain of user to authenticate

       --workstation=WORKSTATION
          Specify the workstation the user authenticated from

       --challenge=STRING
          NTLM challenge (in HEXADECIMAL)

       --lm-response=RESPONSE
          LM Response to the challenge (in HEXADECIMAL)

       --nt-response=RESPONSE
          NT or NTLMv2 Response to the challenge (in HEXADECIMAL)

       --password=PASSWORD
          User's plaintext password

          If not specified on the command line,  this  is  prompted  for  when
          required.

          For  the  NTLMSSP  based  server  roles, this paramter specifies the
          expected password, allowing testing without winbindd operational.

       --request-lm-key
          Retreive LM session key

       --request-nt-key
          Request NT key

       --diagnostics
          Perform Diagnostics on the authentication chain. Uses  the  password
          from --password or prompts for one.

       --require-membership-of={SID|Name}
          Require  that  a user be a member of specified group (either name or
          SID) for authentication to succeed.

       -V
          Prints the program version number.

       -s <configuration file>
          The file specified contains the configuration  details  required  by
          the  server.  The  information in this file includes server-specific
          information such as what printcap file to use, as well  as  descrip-
          tions  of  all  the  services  that  the  server  is to provide. See
          smb.conf for more information. The default configuration  file  name
          is determined at compile time.

       -d|--debuglevel=level
          level  is an integer from 0 to 10. The default value if this parame-
          ter is not specified is zero.

          The higher this value, the more detail will be  logged  to  the  log
          files  about the activities of the server. At level 0, only critical
          errors and serious warnings will be logged. Level 1 is a  reasonable
          level for day-to-day running - it generates a small amount of infor-
          mation about operations carried out.

          Levels above 1 will generate considerable amounts of log  data,  and
          should only be used when investigating a problem. Levels above 3 are
          designed for use only by developers and generate HUGE amounts of log
          data, most of which is extremely cryptic.

          Note that specifying this parameter here will override the

          parameter in the smb.conf file.

       -l|--logfile=logdirectory
          Base  directory  name for log/debug files. The extension ".progname"
          will be appended (e.g. log.smbclient,  log.smbd,  etc...).  The  log
          file is never removed by the client.

       -h|--help
          Print a summary of command line options.

EXAMPLE SETUP
       To  setup  ntlm_auth  for use by squid 2.5, with both basic and NTLMSSP
       authentication, the following should be placed in the squid.conf  file.




       auth_param ntlm program ntlm_auth --helper-protocol=squid-2.5-ntlmssp
       auth_param basic program ntlm_auth --helper-protocol=squid-2.5-basic
       auth_param basic children 5
       auth_param basic realm Squid proxy-caching web server
       auth_param basic credentialsttl 2 hours



       Note
       This  example assumes that ntlm_auth has been installed into your path,
       and that the group permissions on winbindd_privileged are as  described
       above.

       To  setup ntlm_auth for use by squid 2.5 with group limitation in addi-
       tion to the above  example,  the  following  should  be  added  to  the
       squid.conf file.




       auth_param ntlm program ntlm_auth --helper-protocol=squid-2.5-ntlmssp --require-membership-of='WORKGROUPauth_param basic program ntlm_auth --helper-protocol=squid-2.5-basic --require-membership-of='WORKGROUP


TROUBLESHOOTING
       If  you're  experiencing problems with authenticating Internet Explorer
       running under MS Windows 9X or Millenium  Edition  against  ntlm_auth's
       NTLMSSP  authentication  helper  (--helper-protocol=squid-2.5-ntlmssp),
       then please read the Microsoft Knowledge Base article #239869 and  fol-
       low instructions described there.

VERSION
       This man page is correct for version 3.0 of the Samba suite.

AUTHOR
       The  original  Samba  software  and  related  utilities were created by
       Andrew Tridgell. Samba is now developed by the Samba Team  as  an  Open
       Source project similar to the way the Linux kernel is developed.

       The  ntlm_auth  manpage  was  written  by  Jelmer  Vernooij  and Andrew
       Bartlett.




                                                                  NTLM_AUTH(1)
