POSTCONF(1)                                                        POSTCONF(1)



NAME
       postconf - Postfix configuration utility

SYNOPSIS
       postconf [-dhnv] [-c config_dir] [parameter ...]

       postconf [-aAmlv] [-c config_dir]

       postconf [-ev] [-c config_dir] [parameter=value ...]

       postconf [-btv] [-c config_dir] [template_file]

DESCRIPTION
       The  postconf(1)  command  displays  the actual values of configuration
       parameters, changes configuration parameter values, or  displays  other
       configuration information about the Postfix mail system.

       Options:

       -a     List  the available SASL server plug-in types.  The SASL plug-in
              type is selected with the smtpd_sasl_type configuration  parame-
              ter by specifying one of the names listed below.

              cyrus  This  server  plug-in  is available when Postfix is built
                     with Cyrus SASL support.

              dovecot
                     This server plug-in requires the  Dovecot  authentication
                     server.

              This feature is available with Postfix 2.3 and later.

       -A     List  the available SASL client plug-in types.  The SASL plug-in
              type is selected with the smtp_sasl_type or lmtp_sasl_type  con-
              figuration  parameters  by  specifying  one  of the names listed
              below.

              cyrus  This client plug-in is available when  Postfix  is  built
                     with Cyrus SASL support.

              This feature is available with Postfix 2.3 and later.

       -b [template_file]
              Display the message text that appears at the beginning of deliv-
              ery status notification (DSN) messages, with  $name  expressions
              replaced  by  actual  values.   To override the built-in message
              text, specify a template file at the end of the command line, or
              specify a template file in main.cf with the bounce_template_file
              parameter.  To force selection of the built-in message text tem-
              plates,  specify an empty template file name (in shell language:
              "").

              This feature is available with Postfix 2.3 and later.

       -c config_dir
              The main.cf configuration file is in the named directory instead
              of the default configuration directory.

       -d     Print default parameter settings instead of actual settings.

       -e     Edit  the  main.cf  configuration  file. The file is copied to a
              temporary file then renamed into place.  Parameters  and  values
              are  specified  on the command line. Use quotes in order to pro-
              tect shell metacharacters and whitespace.

       -h     Show parameter values only, not the ``name = '' label that  nor-
              mally precedes the value.

       -l     List  the names of all supported mailbox locking methods.  Post-
              fix supports the following methods:

              flock  A kernel-based advisory locking method  for  local  files
                     only.  This locking method is available on systems with a
                     BSD compatible library.

              fcntl  A kernel-based advisory  locking  method  for  local  and
                     remote files.

              dotlock
                     An application-level locking method. An application locks
                     a file named filename by  creating  a  file  named  file-
                     name.lock.  The application is expected to remove its own
                     lock file, as well as stale lock  files  that  were  left
                     behind after abnormal termination.

       -m     List  the  names of all supported lookup table types. In Postfix
              configuration files, lookup tables are specified  as  type:name,
              where type is one of the types listed below. The table name syn-
              tax depends on the lookup table type as described in  the  DATA-
              BASE_README document.

              btree  A  sorted, balanced tree structure.  This is available on
                     systems with support for Berkeley DB databases.

              cdb    A read-optimized structure with no support for  incremen-
                     tal  updates.   This is available on systems with support
                     for CDB databases.

              cidr   A table that  associates  values  with  Classless  Inter-
                     Domain  Routing  (CIDR)  patterns.  This  is described in
                     cidr_table(5).

              dbm    An indexed file type based on hashing.  This is available
                     on systems with support for DBM databases.

              environ
                     The UNIX process environment array. The lookup key is the
                     variable name. Originally implemented for testing,  some-
                     one may find this useful someday.

              hash   An indexed file type based on hashing.  This is available
                     on systems with support for Berkeley DB databases.

              ldap (read-only)
                     Perform  lookups  using  the  LDAP  protocol.   This   is
                     described in ldap_table(5).

              mysql (read-only)
                     Perform   lookups  using  the  MYSQL  protocol.  This  is
                     described in mysql_table(5).

              pcre (read-only)
                     A lookup table based on Perl Compatible  Regular  Expres-
                     sions. The file format is described in pcre_table(5).

              pgsql (read-only)
                     Perform  lookups  using  the PostgreSQL protocol. This is
                     described in pgsql_table(5).

              proxy (read-only)
                     A lookup table that is implemented via the Postfix  prox-
                     ymap(8) service. The table name syntax is type:name.

              regexp (read-only)
                     A  lookup  table  based  on regular expressions. The file
                     format is described in regexp_table(5).

              sdbm   An indexed file type based on hashing.  This is available
                     on systems with support for SDBM databases.

              static (read-only)
                     A  table  that  always returns its name as lookup result.
                     For example, static:foobar always returns the string foo-
                     bar as lookup result.

              tcp (read-only)
                     Perform  lookups  using  a  simple request-reply protocol
                     that is described in tcp_table(5).  This feature  is  not
                     included with the stable Postfix release.

              unix (read-only)
                     A  limited way to query the UNIX authentication database.
                     The following tables are implemented:

                     unix:passwd.byname
                            The table is the UNIX password database.  The  key
                            is  a  login  name.  The result is a password file
                            entry in passwd(5) format.

                     unix:group.byname
                            The table is the UNIX group database. The key is a
                            group  name.   The result is a group file entry in
                            group(5) format.

              Other table types may exist depending on how Postfix was  built.

       -n     Print  parameter  settings  that  are not left at their built-in
              default value, because they are explicitly specified in main.cf.

       -t [template_file]
              Display  the  templates  for  delivery status notification (DSN)
              messages. To override the built-in templates, specify a template
              file  at the end of the command line, or specify a template file
              in main.cf with the bounce_template_file  parameter.   To  force
              selection  of  the built-in templates, specify an empty template
              file name (in shell language: "").

              This feature is available with Postfix 2.3 and later.

       -v     Enable verbose  logging  for  debugging  purposes.  Multiple  -v
              options make the software increasingly verbose.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Problems are reported to the standard error stream.

ENVIRONMENT
       MAIL_CONFIG
              Directory with Postfix configuration files.

CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS
       The  following  main.cf parameters are especially relevant to this pro-
       gram.

       The text below provides only a parameter summary. See  postconf(5)  for
       more details including examples.

       config_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The  default  location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf con-
              figuration files.

       bounce_template_file (empty)
              Pathname of a configuration file with bounce message  templates.

FILES
       /etc/postfix/main.cf, Postfix configuration parameters

SEE ALSO
       bounce(5), bounce template file format
       postconf(5), configuration parameters

README FILES
       Use  "postconf readme_directory" or "postconf html_directory" to locate
       this information.
       DATABASE_README, Postfix lookup table overview

LICENSE
       The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.

AUTHOR(S)
       Wietse Venema
       IBM T.J. Watson Research
       P.O. Box 704
       Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA



                                                                   POSTCONF(1)
