SMBCONTROL(1)                                                    SMBCONTROL(1)



NAME
       smbcontrol - send messages to smbd, nmbd or winbindd processes

SYNOPSIS
       smbcontrol [-i] [-s]

       smbcontrol [destination] [message-type] [parameter]

DESCRIPTION
       This tool is part of the samba(7) suite.

       smbcontrol  is a very small program, which sends messages to a smbd(8),
       a nmbd(8), or a winbindd(8) daemon running on the system.

OPTIONS
       -h|--help
          Print a summary of command line options.

       -s <configuration file>
          The file specified contains the configuration  details  required  by
          the  server.  The  information in this file includes server-specific
          information such as what printcap file to use, as well  as  descrip-
          tions  of  all  the  services  that  the  server  is to provide. See
          smb.conf for more information. The default configuration  file  name
          is determined at compile time.

       -i
          Run  interactively. Individual commands of the form destination mes-
          sage-type parameters can be entered on STDIN. An empty command  line
          or a "q" will quit the program.

       destination
          One of nmbd, smbd or a process ID.

          The  smbd  destination causes the message to "broadcast" to all smbd
          daemons.

          The nmbd destination causes the message to be sent to the nmbd  dae-
          mon specified in the nmbd.pid file.

          If  a  single  process ID is given, the message is sent to only that
          process.

       message-type
          Type of message to send. See the section MESSAGE-TYPES for  details.

       parameters
          any parameters required for the message-type

MESSAGE-TYPES
       Available message types are:

       close-share
          Order  smbd to close the client connections to the named share. Note
          that this doesn't affect client connections  to  any  other  shares.
          This  message-type  takes  an  argument  of the share name for which
          client connections will be closed, or the "*" character  which  will
          close  all  currently  open  shares.  This may be useful if you made
          changes to the access controls on the share. This message  can  only
          be sent to smbd.

       debug
          Set debug level to the value specified by the parameter. This can be
          sent to any of the destinations.

       force-election
          This message causes the nmbd daemon to force  a  new  browse  master
          election.

       ping
          Send  specified number of "ping" messages and wait for the same num-
          ber of reply "pong" messages. This can be sent to any of the  desti-
          nations.

       profile
          Change  profile  settings  of  a daemon, based on the parameter. The
          parameter can be "on" to turn on profile stats collection, "off"  to
          turn off profile stats collection, "count" to enable only collection
          of count stats (time stats are disabled), and "flush"  to  zero  the
          current profile stats. This can be sent to any smbd or nmbd destina-
          tions.

       debuglevel
          Request debuglevel of a certain daemon and write it to stdout.  This
          can be sent to any of the destinations.

       profilelevel
          Request  profilelevel  of  a  certain daemon and write it to stdout.
          This can be sent to any smbd or nmbd destinations.

       printnotify
          Order smbd to send a  printer  notify  message  to  any  Windows  NT
          clients  connected to a printer. This message-type takes the follow-
          ing arguments:


             queuepause printername
                Send a queue pause change notify message to the printer speci-
                fied.

             queueresume printername
                Send  a  queue  resume  change  notify message for the printer
                specified.

             jobpause printername unixjobid
                Send a job pause change notify message  for  the  printer  and
                unix jobid specified.

             jobresume printername unixjobid
                Send  a  job  resume change notify message for the printer and
                unix jobid specified.

             jobdelete printername unixjobid
                Send a job delete change notify message for  the  printer  and
                unix jobid specified.

             Note  that this message only sends notification that an event has
             occured. It doesn't actually cause the event to happen.

             This message can only be sent to smbd.

       samsync
          Order smbd to synchronise sam database from  PDC  (being  BDC).  Can
          only be sent to smbd.

          Note
          Not working at the moment

       samrepl
          Send  sam  replication  message,  with specified serial. Can only be
          sent to smbd. Should not be used manually.

       dmalloc-mark
          Set a mark for dmalloc. Can be sent to  both  smbd  and  nmbd.  Only
          available if samba is built with dmalloc support.

       dmalloc-log-changed
          Dump  the  pointers that have changed since the mark set by dmalloc-
          mark. Can be sent to both smbd and nmbd. Only available if samba  is
          built with dmalloc support.

       shutdown
          Shut down specified daemon. Can be sent to both smbd and nmbd.

       pool-usage
          Print  a human-readable description of all talloc(pool) memory usage
          by the specified daemon/process. Available for both smbd and nmbd.

       drvupgrade
          Force clients of printers using specified  driver  to  update  their
          local version of the driver. Can only be sent to smbd.

       reload-config
          Force  daemon  to reload smb.conf configuration file. Can be sent to
          smbd, nmbd, or winbindd.

VERSION
       This man page is correct for version 3.0 of the Samba suite.

SEE ALSO
       nmbd(8) and smbd(8).

AUTHOR
       The original Samba software  and  related  utilities  were  created  by
       Andrew  Tridgell.  Samba  is now developed by the Samba Team as an Open
       Source project similar to the way the Linux kernel is developed.

       The original Samba man pages were written by Karl Auer.  The  man  page
       sources  were converted to YODL format (another excellent piece of Open
       Source  software,  available  at  ftp://ftp.icce.rug.nl/pub/unix/)  and
       updated  for the Samba 2.0 release by Jeremy Allison. The conversion to
       DocBook for Samba 2.2 was done by Gerald Carter. The conversion to Doc-
       Book XML 4.2 for Samba 3.0 was done by Alexander Bokovoy.




                                                                 SMBCONTROL(1)
