TESTPARM(1)                                                        TESTPARM(1)



NAME
       testparm  -  check an smb.conf configuration file for internal correct-
       ness

SYNOPSIS
       testparm [-s] [-h] [-v] [-L <servername>] [-t <encoding>] {config file-
        name} [hostname hostIP]

DESCRIPTION
       This tool is part of the samba(7) suite.

       testparm  is  a very simple test program to check an smbd(8) configura-
       tion file for internal correctness. If this program  reports  no  prob-
       lems, you can use the configuration file with confidence that smbd will
       successfully load the configuration file.

       Note that this is NOT a guarantee that the services  specified  in  the
       configuration file will be available or will operate as expected.

       If the optional host name and host IP address are specified on the com-
       mand line, this test program  will  run  through  the  service  entries
       reporting whether the specified host has access to each service.

       If testparm finds an error in the
        smb.conf  file  it  returns  an exit code of 1 to the calling program,
       else it returns an exit code of 0. This allows shell  scripts  to  test
       the output from testparm.

OPTIONS
       -s
          Without  this  option,  testparm  will  prompt for a carriage return
          after printing the service names and before dumping the service def-
          initions.

       -h|--help
          Print a summary of command line options.

       -V
          Prints the program version number.

       -L servername
          Sets  the  value  of  the %L macro to servername. This is useful for
          testing include files specified with the %L macro.

       -v
          If this option is specified, testparm will also output  all  options
          that  were  not  used  in  smb.conf(5)  and  are  thus  set to their
          defaults.

       -t encoding
          Output data in specified encoding.

       --parameter-name parametername
          Dumps the named parameter. If no section-name is  set  the  view  is
          limited  by  default  to  the global section. It is also possible to
          dump a parametrical option. Therfore the option has to be  separated
          by a colon from the parametername.

       --section-name sectionname
          Dumps the named section.

       configfilename
          This is the name of the configuration file to check. If this parame-
          ter is not  present  then  the  default  smb.conf(5)  file  will  be
          checked.

       hostname
          If  this  parameter  and  the following are specified, then testparm
          will examine the hosts  allow  and  hosts  deny  parameters  in  the
          smb.conf(5)  file  to determine if the hostname with this IP address
          would be allowed access to the smbd server.  If  this  parameter  is
          supplied, the hostIP parameter must also be supplied.

       hostIP
          This is the IP address of the host specified in the previous parame-
          ter. This address must be supplied if the hostname parameter is sup-
          plied.

FILES
       smb.conf(5)
          This  is usually the name of the configuration file used by smbd(8).

DIAGNOSTICS
       The program will issue a message saying whether the configuration  file
       loaded  OK  or not. This message may be preceded by errors and warnings
       if the file did not load. If the file was loaded OK, the  program  then
       dumps all known service details to stdout.

VERSION
       This man page is correct for version 3.0 of the Samba suite.

SEE ALSO
       smb.conf(5), smbd(8)

AUTHOR
       The  original  Samba  software  and  related  utilities were created by
       Andrew Tridgell. Samba is now developed by the Samba Team  as  an  Open
       Source project similar to the way the Linux kernel is developed.

       The  original  Samba  man pages were written by Karl Auer. The man page
       sources were converted to YODL format (another excellent piece of  Open
       Source  software,  available  at  ftp://ftp.icce.rug.nl/pub/unix/)  and
       updated for the Samba 2.0 release by Jeremy Allison. The conversion  to
       DocBook for Samba 2.2 was done by Gerald Carter. The conversion to Doc-
       Book XML 4.2 for Samba 3.0 was done by Alexander Bokovoy.




                                                                   TESTPARM(1)
