TIFFUTIL(1)               BSD General Commands Manual              TIFFUTIL(1)

NAME
     tiffutil - manipulates tiff files

SYNOPSIS
     tiffutil <option> [<arguments>] [-out <outfile>]

DESCRIPTION
     tiffutil lets you manipulate TIFF files. The list of options (also avail-
     able by running the program without any options) follows:

     tiffutil -none             infile                  [-out outfile]
              -lzw              infile                  [-out outfile]
              -packbits         infile                  [-out outfile]
              -cat              infile1 [infile2 ...]   [-out outfile]
              -catnosizecheck   infile1 [infile2 ...]   [-out outfile]
              -cathidpicheck    infile1 [infile2 ...]   [-out outfile]
              -extract          num infile              [-out outfile]
              -info             infile
              -verboseinfo      infile
              -dump             infile

     -none, -lzw, and -packbits options specify the compression format to be
     applied to the images in the TIFF file.  -none specifies no compression;
     -packbits specifies PackBits compression; -lzw specifies standard Lempel-
     Ziv & Welch compression (no prediction scheme).

     -cat allows combining multiple TIFF files into one.  The images are
     copied without any change in tag values. If the real sizes (pixel size
     divided by dpi) of the images being combined are not the same, a warning
     will be generated. This makes sure that NSImage can successfully choose
     the right size image out of the generated TIFF file.  Use -cathidpicheck
     to perform a stricter check, conforming to Apple's guidelines for resolu-
     tion independent bitmap images.  Use -catnosizecheck to bypass the size
     check.

     -extract allows extracting an individual image from a TIFF file; specify
     num = 0 for the first image in the file.

     -info prints information about TIFF images. -verboseinfo is the same,
     except most of the tables are displayed in full. -dump simply lists all
     of the tags in the file without trying to interpret them; it is handy
     when trying to figure out why a TIFF file won't load or display properly.

     For options which write images out, the output goes to "out.tiff" unless
     an output file name is specified after a -out keyword.  This keyword and
     the file must be the last items on the command line. -info, -verboseinfo,
     and -dump write their output to the standard output.

     If there are multiple images in a TIFF file the specified operation will
     be performed on all of them.

Premultiplying TIFF files with alpha (transparency)
     When loading TIFF files into Cocoa apps, you might sometimes see the fol-
     lowing warning in the console: "Warning: TIFF image with unknown extra
     samples assumed to have unassociated alpha. RGB values have been premul-
     tiplied."

     Cocoa and Quartz expect bitmaps with alpha to have the color values pre-
     multiplied. Whenever a TIFF file without premultiplication is loaded
     using NSImage or NSBitmapImageRep, Cocoa will premultiply the image for
     you. There's a slight performance hit to this, so it's best to premulti-
     ply the images ahead of time.

     Some paint applications do not do premultiplication, and in addition,
     they are not quite clear in stating what they do with regards to alpha.
     In those cases you will get the above warning.

     tiffutil can be used to fix such files. Simply run the image through with
     the -cat option:

     tiffutil -cat orig.tiff -out new.tiff

     This will read orig.tiff and write it out as new.tiff.

CREDITS
     Parts of tiffutil were based on the freely distributable "tiffcp" and
     "tiffinfo" programs written by Sam Leffler and made available with v3.0
     of his excellent TIFF library. The TIFF library and the tiffcp and
     tiffinfo programs are:
       Copyright (c) 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992 Sam Leffler
       Copyright (c) 1991, 1992 Silicon Graphics, Inc.

Mac OS X                        August 28, 2002                       Mac OS X
