XCODEINDEX(1)             BSD General Commands Manual            XCODEINDEX(1)

NAME
     xcodeindex -- indexes Xcode projects

SYNOPSIS
     xcodeindex [-project projectname] [-configuration configurationname]
                [-quiet] [-destPath path] [-loglevel level] [indexaction ...]
     xcodeindex -version
     xcodeindex -help

DESCRIPTION
     xcodeindex indexes an Xcode project.

   Usage
     Run xcodeindex from the directory containing your project (i.e. the
     directory containing the projectname.xcode package). If you have multiple
     projects in the this directory you will need to use -project to indicate
     which project should be indexed.

     By default, xcodeindex updates the project index if it exists, otherwise
     it creates a new index.

   Options
     -project projectname
           Index the project specified by projectname.  Required if there are
           multiple project files in the same directory.

     -configuration configurationname
           Use the build configuration specified by configurationname when
           indexing the project. If none is specified, the active configura-
           tion is used.

     -quiet
           Suppresses all logging while indexing.

     -destPath path
           Places the project index in the directory specified by path.

     -loglevel level
           Turns on varying degrees of indexing debugging. The level range is
           from zero to six, enabling a staggered number of the existing
           indexing defaults for the indexer. If an option greater than six is
           used, then the maximum level of logging is enabled. The logging
           levels are defined as:

           0           No logging

           1           Prints the name of the file being indexed. This is the
                       default logging level.

           2           File processing output

           3           Symbol updating output

           4           Symbol insertion and creation output

           5           Parser basic output

           6           Parser error output
           The levels are inclusive (thus enabling log level 4 would also
           automatically include levels 1, 2, and 3).  Output from higher log-
           ging levels than the default (level 1) is not expected to be useful
           for most developers, but could be valuable in troubleshooting cases
           where there is a problem with indexing a particular Xcode project.

     indexaction ...
           Specify an index action (or actions) to perform on the project.
           Available build actions are:

           clean       Removes the index for the project.

           build       Updates the index for the project, creating it if nec-
                       essary. This is the default index action.

           stats       Prints the statistics for the index (number of classes,
                       etc)

           dump        Dumps a tab-delimited format of the index (for major
                       symbols - classes, methods, etc) to stdout

     -version
           Displays component version numbers for xcodeindex.  These can be
           compared to the version numbers in the Xcode application's About
           Xcode window.

     -help
           Displays usage information for xcodeindex.

EXAMPLES
     xcodeindex clean

             Cleans the index.

     xcodeindex -project FirstProject -project SecondProject -project
             ThirdProject -configuration Debug -quiet

             Indexes three projects using the Debug configuration and sup-
             presses all logging.

Mac OS X                      September 16, 2008                      Mac OS X
