xed(1)                    BSD General Commands Manual                   xed(1)

NAME
     xed -- Xcode text editor invocation tool.

SYNOPSIS
     xed [-xcwrbhv] [-l lineno] [file ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The xed tool launches the Xcode application and opens the given docu-
     ments, or opens a new untitled document, optionally with the contents of
     standard in.

OPTIONS
     The options for xed are similar to those for the command-line utiltiies
     for other text editors:

     -x, --launch
              Launches Xcode opening a new empty unsaved file, without reading
              from standard input.

     -c, --create
              Creates any files in the file list that do not already exist.
              If used without --launch, standard input will be read and piped
              to the last file created.

     -w, --wait
              Wait for the files to be closed before exiting.  xed will idle
              in a run loop waiting for a notification from Xcode when each
              file is closed, and will only terminate when all are closed.
              This is useful when invoking it from a script.

     -l, --line <number>
              Selects the given line in the last file opened.

     -b, --background
              Opens Xcode without activating it; the process that invoked xed
              remains in front.

     -h, --help
              Prints a brief summary of usage.

     -v, --version
              Prints the version number of xed

     [file...]
              A list of file paths.  Existing files will be opened; nonexis-
              tent files will be created only if the --create flag is passed.
              If no files are passed, then standard input will be read and
              piped into a new untitled dcument (unless --launch is passed).
              If --create and at least one nonexistent file name is passed,
              the last nonexistent file will be created, filled with the stan-
              dard input, and opened.

HISTORY
     xed was introduced in Mac OS X 10.5 with Xcode 3.0.

Mac OS                        September 18, 2009                        Mac OS
