ATOS(1)                                                                ATOS(1)



NAME
       atos - tool to convert numeric addresses to symbols of binary images or
       processes

SYNOPSIS
       atos [ -p pid | partial-executable-name ] [ -o executable ] [ -f file ]
       [ -arch architecture ] [ -s slide ] [ -printHeader ] [ address ...  ]

DESCRIPTION
       The  atos  command converts numeric addresses to their symbolic equiva-
       lents.  It must be supplied with either the process ID (or full or par-
       tial  executable  name)  of  a currently executing process, or else the
       path to a Mach-O executable.  (Multiple process IDs or paths  can  also
       be supplied if necessary, and the two can be mixed in any order.)  When
       working with a running process, atos considers  addresses  and  symbols
       defined  in  all executables currently loaded by that process, at their
       loaded locations.  When working with a Mach-O executable, atos  consid-
       ers  only  addresses  and  symbols defined in that executable, at their
       default locations (unless the -s option is given).

       A numeric address will be converted into the symbol (if any) whose cor-
       responding  range of addresses contains the specified address. With the
       -s flag, the  indicated  slide  value  is  subtracted  from  all  input
       addresses  prior  to  symbol lookup.  If an address cannot be converted
       using the first process or executable specified, any other processes or
       executables  specified  will  be  used,  in the order specified.  If an
       address still cannot be converted,  it  will  be  reprinted  unchanged.
       Results  are printed out one to a line, with numeric addresses given in
       hexadecimal format.

       Numeric arguments may be given in decimal format, or they may  be  pre-
       fixed  by  0x or 0X and given in hexadecimal format.  With the -f flag,
       addresses may optionally be taken from a file, which will be read as if
       it  contained  whitespace-separated  numeric  address arguments.  If no
       address arguments are given on the command line, atos enters an  inter-
       active mode, in which it takes addresses from stdin as if it were read-
       ing them from a file.

       The -printHeader argument indicates that if a process ID was specified,
       the  first  line of atos output should be a header of the form "Looking
       up symbols in process <pid> named:  <process-name>".  This is primarily
       used  when atos is invoked as part of a stackshot(1) run, for verifica-
       tion of the process ID and name.

GETTING SYMBOLS FOR A DIFFERENT MACHINE ARCHITECTURE
       It is possible to get symbols for addresses from  a  different  machine
       architecture  than  the  system on which atos is running.  For example,
       when running atos on an Intel-based system, one may  wish  to  get  the
       symbol  for  an address that came from a backtrace of a process running
       on a PowerPC machine.  To do so, use the  -arch  flag  to  specify  the
       desired  architecture (such as i386 or ppc) and pass in a corresponding
       symbol-rich Mach-O executable with a binary image of the  corresponding
       architecture (such as a Universal Binary).



Apple Inc.                       June 19, 1998                         ATOS(1)
