quartz-wm(1)                                                      quartz-wm(1)



NAME
       quartz-wm - Aqua Window Manager for the X Window System on OS X

SYNTAX
       quartz-wm [ --only-proxy ]

DESCRIPTION
       quartz-wm  is  a  window  manager  for the X Window System. It provides
       titlebars for X11 windows that aim to match the look and feel of native
       Mac  OS X windows. It also contains functionality to bridge between the
       system pasteboard and the X server's PRIMARY and CLIPBOARD  selections.

OPTIONS
       quartz-wm accepts the following command line options:

       --only-proxy
               This  option  indicates  that the program should not attempt to
               manage any of the  display's  screens.  However  the  selection
               proxying features will still be enabled, meaning that a differ-
               ent window manager may be used, but cut and paste will work  as
               if quartz-wm were running.

       --no-pasteboard
               This  option  indicates  that the program should not manage the
               cut and paste proxying.  This option is  defaulted  to  on  for
               newer  X11  servers that support this functionality and off for
               older servers that do not.

       --prefs-domain <domain>
               This option can be used to override the  domain  used  to  read
               preferences  from.  This is useful if you want to have multiple
               X11.apps running at the same time.

CUSTOMIZATION
       quartz-wm can be customized using the defaults(1)  command.   quartz-wm
       can be forced to re-read these preferences by sending it a SIGHUP using
       kill(1).  The available options are:

       defaults write org.x.X11 wm_ffm -bool true
               Enables focus-follows-mouse mode. Windows belonging  to  the  X
               server  may then be focused by moving the pointer over them, as
               well as the default mode of clicking in them.

       defaults write org.x.X11 wm_click_through -bool true
               Disables the default behavior of  swallowing  window-activating
               mouse events.

       defaults write org.x.X11 wm_limit_size -bool true
               Limit  the size of each window to the size of the current head.

       defaults write org.x.x11 wm_focus_on_new_window -bool false
               Don't tell X11.app to take focus when a new X11 window is  cre-
               ated.

       defaults write org.x.X11 wm_window_shading -bool true
               Enables double clicking on a titlebar to shade the window

       defaults write org.x.X11 wm_auto_quit -bool true
               Automatically  quit  quartz-wm  (thus  shutting  down  the  X11
               server) when the last window is closed.

       defaults write org.x.X11 wm_auto_quit_timeout -int 3
               Set the timeout for the auto-quit feature.  If wm_auto_quit  is
               true,  quartz-wm  will wait this many seconds before attempting
               to shutdown.  If  another  window  is  created  in  that  time,
               quartz-wm will not shutdown.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       DISPLAY This variable is used to determine which X server to use.

SEE ALSO
       X(7), Xquartz(1), xrdb(1), twm(1)



                                      0.0                         quartz-wm(1)
