SAY(1)                     Speech Synthesis Manager                     SAY(1)



NAME
       say - Convert text to audible speech

SYNOPSIS
           say [-v voice] [-o outfile [audio format options] | -n name:port ] ... [-f file | string ...]

DESCRIPTION
       This tool uses the Speech Synthesis manager to convert input text to
       audible speech and either play it through the sound output device
       chosen in System Preferences or save it to an AIFF file.

OPTIONS
       string
           Specify the text to speak on the command line. This can consist of
           multiple arguments, which are considered to be separated by spaces.

       -f file, --input-file=file
           Specify a file to be spoken. If file is - or neither this parameter
           nor a message is specified, read from standard input.

       -v voice, --voice=voice
           Specify the voice to be used. Default is the voice selected in
           System Preferences.

       -o out.aiff, --output-file=file
           Specify the path for an audio file to be written. AIFF is the
           default and should be supported for most voices, but some voices
           support many more file formats.

       -n name, --network-send=name
       -n name:port, --network-send=name:port
       -n :port, --network-send=:port
       -n :, --network-send=:
           Specify a service name (default "AUNetSend") and/or IP port to be
           used for redirecting the speech output through AUNetSend.

       If the input is a TTY, text is spoken line by line, and the output
       file, if specified, will only contain audio for the last line of the
       input.  Otherwise, text is spoken all at once.

AUDIO FORMATS
       Starting in MacOS X 10.6, file formats other than AIFF may be
       specified, although not all third party synthesizers may initially
       support them. In simple cases, the file format can be inferred from the
       extension, although generally some of the options below are required
       for finer grained control:

       --file-format=format
           The format of the file to write (AIFF, caff, m4af, WAVE).
           Generally, it's easier to specify a suitable file extension for the
           output file.

       --data-format=format
           The format of the audio data to be stored. Formats other than
           linear PCM are specified by giving their format identifiers (aac,
           alac). Linear PCM formats are specified as a sequence of:

           Endianness (optional)
               One of BE (big endian) or LE (little endian). Default is native
               endianness.

           Data type
               One of F (float), I (integer), or, rarely, UI (unsigned
               integer).

           Sample size
               One of 8, 16, 24, 32, 64.

           Most available file formats only support a subset of these sample
           formats.

           The format identifier optionally can be followed by @samplerate and
           /hexflags for the format.

       --channels=channels
           The number of channels. This will generally be of limited use, as
           most speech synthesizers produce mono audio only.

       --bit-rate=rate
           The bit rate for formats like AAC.

       --quality=quality
           The audio converter quality level between 0 (lowest) and 127
           (highest).

ERRORS
       say returns 0 if the text was spoken successfully, otherwise non-zero.
       Diagnostic messages will be printed to standard error.

EXAMPLES
          say Hello, World
          say -v Alex -o hi -f hello_world.txt
          say -o hi.aac Hello, World
          say -o hi.aac --data-format=alac Hello, World.
          say -o hi.caf --data-format=LEF32@8000 Hello, World



1.0                               2008-10-29                            SAY(1)
