SAMBA(7)                                                              SAMBA(7)



NAME
       samba - A Windows SMB/CIFS fileserver for UNIX

SYNOPSIS
       samba

DESCRIPTION
       The  Samba  software  suite is a collection of programs that implements
       the Server Message Block (commonly abbreviated  as  SMB)  protocol  for
       UNIX systems. This protocol is sometimes also referred to as the Common
       Internet File System (CIFS).  For  a  more  thorough  description,  see
       http://www.ubiqx.org/cifs/.  Samba also implements the NetBIOS protocol
       in nmbd.

       smbd(8)
          The smbd daemon provides the file and print services to SMB clients,
          such as Windows 95/98, Windows NT, Windows for Workgroups or LanMan-
          ager. The  configuration  file  for  this  daemon  is  described  in
          smb.conf(5)

       nmbd(8)
          The  nmbd  daemon provides NetBIOS nameservice and browsing support.
          The configuration file for this daemon is described in smb.conf(5)

       smbclient(1)
          The smbclient program implements a simple ftp-like client.  This  is
          useful for accessing SMB shares on other compatible servers (such as
          Windows NT), and can also be used to allow a UNIX box to print to  a
          printer  attached  to  any  SMB server (such as a PC running Windows
          NT).

       testparm(1)
          The  testparm  utility  is  a  simple  syntax  checker  for  Samba's
          smb.conf(5) configuration file.

       testprns(1)
          The  testprns utility supports testing printer names defined in your
          printcap file used by Samba.

       smbstatus(1)
          The smbstatus tool provides access to information about the  current
          connections to smbd.

       nmblookup(1)
          The  nmblookup  tools  allows NetBIOS name queries to be made from a
          UNIX host.

       smbpasswd(8)
          The smbpasswd command is a tool for changing LanMan and  Windows  NT
          password hashes on Samba and Windows NT servers.

       smbcacls(1)
          The  smbcacls command is a tool to set ACL's on remote CIFS servers.

       smbsh(1)
          The smbsh command is a program that allows you to run a  unix  shell
          with with an overloaded VFS.

       smbtree(1)
          The smbtree command is a text-based network neighborhood tool.

       smbtar(1)
          The smbtar can make backups of data on CIFS/SMB servers.

       smbspool(8)
          smbspool  is  a helper utility for printing on printers connected to
          CIFS servers.

       smbcontrol(1)
          smbcontrol is a utility that can change  the  behaviour  of  running
          samba daemons.

       rpcclient(1)
          rpcclient  is  a utility that can be used to execute RPC commands on
          remote CIFS servers.

       pdbedit(8)
          The pdbedit command can be used to maintain the local user  database
          on a samba server.

       findsmb(1)
          The  findsmb  command  can  be used to find SMB servers on the local
          network.

       net(8)
          The net command is supposed  to  work  similar  to  the  DOS/Windows
          NET.EXE command.

       swat(8)
          swat is a web-based interface to configuring smb.conf.

       winbindd(8)
          winbindd is a daemon that is used for integrating authentication and
          the user database into unix.

       wbinfo(1)
          wbinfo is a utility that retrieves and stores information related to
          winbind.

       profiles(1)
          profiles  is  a command-line utility that can be used to replace all
          occurences of a certain SID with another SID.

       log2pcap(1)
          log2pcap is a utility for generating pcap trace files from Samba log
          files.

       vfstest(1)
          vfstest is a utility that can be used to test vfs modules.

       ntlm_auth(1)
          ntlm_auth  is  a  helper-utility for external programs wanting to do
          NTLM-authentication.

       smbmount(8), smbumount(8), smbmnt(8)
          smbmount,smbumount and smbmnt are commands that can be used to mount
          CIFS/SMB shares on Linux.

       smbcquotas(1)
          smbcquotas is a tool that can set remote QUOTA's on server with NTFS
          5.

COMPONENTS
       The Samba suite is made up of several  components.  Each  component  is
       described  in  a  separate manual page. It is strongly recommended that
       you read the documentation that comes with Samba and the  manual  pages
       of  those  components  that  you use. If the manual pages and documents
       aren't clear enough then please visit http://devel.samba.org for infor-
       mation on how to file a bug report or submit a patch.

       If  you  require help, visit the Samba webpage at http://www.samba.org/
       and explore the many option available to you.

AVAILABILITY
       The Samba software suite is licensed under the GNU Public License(GPL).
       A  copy  of  that license should have come with the package in the file
       COPYING. You are encouraged to distribute copies of  the  Samba  suite,
       but please obey the terms of this license.

       The latest version of the Samba suite can be obtained via anonymous ftp
       from samba.org in the directory pub/samba/. It  is  also  available  on
       several mirror sites worldwide.

       You  may  also  find  useful  information  about Samba on the newsgroup
       comp.protocol.smb and the Samba mailing list. Details on  how  to  join
       the mailing list are given in the README file that comes with Samba.

       If  you have access to a WWW viewer (such as Mozilla or Konqueror) then
       you will also find lots of useful information, including back issues of
       the Samba mailing list, at http://lists.samba.org.

VERSION
       This man page is correct for version 3.0 of the Samba suite.

CONTRIBUTIONS
       If you wish to contribute to the Samba project, then I suggest you join
       the Samba mailing list at http://lists.samba.org.

       If you have patches to submit, visit http://devel.samba.org/ for infor-
       mation on how to do it properly. We prefer patches in diff -u format.

CONTRIBUTORS
       Contributors  to  the  project are now too numerous to mention here but
       all deserve the thanks of all Samba users. To see a full list, look  at
       the  change-log  in  the  source package for the pre-CVS changes and at
       http://cvs.samba.org/ for the contributors to Samba  post-CVS.  CVS  is
       the  Open  Source  source code control system used by the Samba Team to
       develop Samba. The project would have been unmanageable without it.

AUTHOR
       The original Samba software  and  related  utilities  were  created  by
       Andrew  Tridgell.  Samba  is now developed by the Samba Team as an Open
       Source project similar to the way the Linux kernel is developed.

       The original Samba man pages were written by Karl Auer.  The  man  page
       sources  were converted to YODL format (another excellent piece of Open
       Source  software,  available  at  ftp://ftp.icce.rug.nl/pub/unix/)  and
       updated  for the Samba 2.0 release by Jeremy Allison. The conversion to
       DocBook for Samba 2.2 was done by Gerald Carter. The conversion to Doc-
       Book XML 4.2 for Samba 3.0 was done by Alexander Bokovoy.




                                                                      SAMBA(7)
